#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
The Illusion of Gravity, Juan Malcadena, 2005
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Rand
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
2 Raumdimensionen
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
1 Zeitdimension
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
keine Gravitation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Raumzeit: ?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Quantengravitation (Stringtheorie)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Teilchen: ähnlich Quarks und Gluonen mit 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{60}$
\end_inset

 Farben
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Gluonen bilden Ketten, eine spezielle Kette: Dualität zum Graviton
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Innere
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
3 Raumdimensionen
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
1 Zeitdimension
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Gravitation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Raumzeit: anti-de Sitter 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Quantentheorie
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Teilchen: Strings (u.a.
 Quarks und Gluonen mit 
\begin_inset Formula $3$
\end_inset

 Farben)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Graviton: Dualität zu einer speziellen Gluonenkette
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Interpretation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Graviton im 4-dimensionalen Inneren ist dual zu speziellen Gluonenkette
 (also Teilchen) auf dem 3-dimensionalen Rand
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Problem: unser Universum hat keine anti-de Sitter Raumzeit!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Fakten
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
anti-de Sitter Raumzeiten sind statisch und haben einen Rand mit Zeitkoordinate
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
de Sitter Raumzeiten expandieren und haben keinen Rand mit Zeitkoordinate
\end_layout

\begin_layout Part*
\begin_inset CommandInset line
LatexCommand rule
offset "0.5ex"
width "100col%"
height "1pt"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Part*
Information in the Holographic Universe, Bekenstein, 2007
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Theoretical results about black holes suggest that the universe could be
 like a gigantic hologram
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ask anybody what the physical world is made of, and you are likely to be
 told matter and energy.
 Yet if we have learned anything from engineering, biology and physics,
 information is just as crucial an ingredient.
 The robot at the automobile factory is supplied with metal and plastic
 but can make nothing useful without copious instructions telling it which
 part to weld to what and so on.
 A ribosome in a cell in your body is supplied with amino acid building
 blocks and is powered by energy released by the conversion of ATP to ADP,
 but it can synthesize no proteins without the information brought to it
 from the DNA in the cell's nucleus.
 Likewise, a century of developments in physics has taught us that information
 is a crucial player in physical systems and processes.
 Indeed, a current trend, initiated by John A.
 Wheeler of Princeton University, is to regard the physical world as made
 of information, with energy and matter as incidentals.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This viewpoint invites a new look at venerable questions.
 The information storage capacity of devices such as hard-disk drives has
 been increasing by leaps and bounds.
 When will such progress halt? What is the ultimate information capacity
 of a device that weighs, say, less than a gram and can fit inside a cubic
 centimeter (roughly the size of a computer chip)? How much information
 does it take to describe a whole universe? Could that description fit in
 a computer's memory? Could we, as William Blake memorably penned, see a
 world in a grain of sand, or is that idea no more than poetic license?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Remarkably, recent developments in theoretical physics answer some of these
 questions, and the answers might be important clues to the ultimate theory
 of reality.
 By studying the mysterious properties of black holes, physicists have deduced
 absolute limits on how much information a region of space or a quantity
 of matter and energy can hold.
 Related results suggest that our universe, which we perceive to have three
 spatial dimensions, might instead be written on a two-dimensional surface,
 like a hologram.
 Our everyday perceptions of the world as three-dimensional would then be
 either a profound illusion or merely one of two alternative ways of viewing
 reality.
 A grain of sand may not encompass our world, but a flat screen might.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
A Tale of Two Entropies
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
FORMAL INFORMATION theory originated in seminal 1948 papers by American
 applied mathematician Claude E.
 Shannon, who introduced today's most widely used measure of information
 content: entropy.
 Entropy had long been a central concept of thermodynamics, the branch of
 physics dealing with heat.
 Thermodynamic entropy is popularly described as the disorder in a physical
 system.
 
\color red
In 1877 Austrian physicist Ludwig Boltzmann characterized it more precisely
 in terms of the number of distinct microscopic states that the particles
 composing a chunk of matter could be in while still looking like the same
 macroscopic chunk of matter.

\color inherit
 For example, for the air in the room around you, one would count all the
 ways that the individual gas molecules could be distributed in the room
 and all the ways they could be moving.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When Shannon cast about for a way to quantify the information contained
 in, say, a message, he was led by logic to a formula with the same form
 as Boltzmann's.
 
\color red
The Shannon entropy of a message is the number of binary digits, or bits,
 needed to encode it.

\color inherit
 Shannon entropy does not enlighten us about the value of information, which
 is highly dependent on context.
 Yet as an objective measure of quantity of information, it has been enormously
 useful in science and technology.
 For instance, the design of every modern communications device--from cellular
 phones to modems to compact-disc players--relies on Shannon entropy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color red
Thermodynamic entropy
\color inherit
 and 
\color red
Shannon entropy
\color inherit
 are conceptually equivalent: the number of arrangements that are counted
 by Boltzmann entropy reflects the amount of Shannon information one would
 need to implement any particular arrangement.
 The two entropies have two salient (hervorstechend) differences, though.
 First, the thermodynamic entropy used by a chemist or a refrigeration engineer
 is expressed in units of energy divided by temperature, whereas the Shannon
 entropy used by a communications engineer is in bits, essentially dimensionless.
 That difference is merely (lediglich) a matter of convention.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Even when reduced to common units, however, typical values of the two entropies
 differ vastly in magnitude.
 A silicon microchip carrying a gigabyte of data, for instance, has a Shannon
 entropy of about 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{10}$
\end_inset

 bits (one byte is eight bits), tremendously smaller than the chip's thermodynam
ic entropy, which is about 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{23}$
\end_inset

 bits at room temperature.
 This discrepancy occurs because the entropies are computed for different
 
\color green
degrees of freedom
\color inherit
.
 A degree of freedom is any quantity that can vary, such as a coordinate
 specifying a particle's location or one component of its velocity.
 The Shannon entropy of the chip cares only about the overall state of each
 tiny transistor etched in the silicon crystal--the transistor is on or
 off; it is a 0 or a 1--a single binary degree of freedom.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thermodynamic entropy, in contrast, depends on the states of all the billions
 of atoms (and their roaming electrons) that make up each transistor.
 As miniaturization brings closer the day when each atom will store one
 bit of information for us, the useful Shannon entropy of the state-of-the-art
 microchip will edge closer in magnitude to its material's thermodynamic
 entropy.
 When the two entropies are calculated for the same degrees of freedom,
 they are equal.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What are the ultimate degrees of freedom? Atoms, after all, are made of
 electrons and nuclei, nuclei are agglomerations of protons and neutrons,
 and those in turn are composed of quarks.
 Many physicists today consider electrons and quarks to be excitations of
 superstrings, which they hypothesize to be the most fundamental entities.
 But the vicissitudes of a century of revelations in physics warn us not
 to be dogmatic.
 There could be more levels of structure in our universe than are dreamt
 of in today's physics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One cannot calculate the ultimate information capacity of a chunk of matter
 or, equivalently, its true thermodynamic entropy, without knowing the nature
 of the ultimate constituents of matter or of the deepest level of structure,
 which I shall refer to as level X.
 (This ambiguity causes no problems in analyzing practical thermodynamics,
 such as that of car engines, for example, because the quarks within the
 atoms can be ignored--they do not change their states under the relatively
 benign conditions in the engine.) Given the dizzying progress in miniaturization
, one can playfully contemplate a day when quarks will serve to store informatio
n, one bit apiece perhaps.
 How much information would then fit into our one-centimeter cube? And how
 much if we harness superstrings or even deeper, yet undreamt of levels?
 Surprisingly, developments in gravitation physics in the past three decades
 have supplied some clear answers to what seem to be elusive questions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Black Hole Thermodynamics
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A CENTRAL PLAYER in these developments is the black hole.
 Black holes are a consequence of general relativity, Albert Einstein's
 geometric theory of gravitation, initially published in 1915.
 In this theory, gravitation arises from the curvature of spacetime, which
 makes objects move as if they were pulled by a force.
 Conversely, the curvature is caused by the presence of matter and energy.
 According to Einstein's equations, a sufficiently dense concentration of
 matter or energy will curve spacetime so extremely that it rends, forming
 a black hole.
 The laws of relativity forbid anything that went into a black hole from
 coming out again, at least within the classical (nonquantum) description
 of the physics.
 The point of no return, called the event horizon of the black hole, is
 of crucial importance.
 In the simplest case, the horizon is a sphere, whose surface area is larger
 for more massive black holes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is impossible to determine what is inside a black hole.
 No detailed information can emerge across the horizon and escape into the
 outside world.
 In disappearing forever into a black hole, however, a piece of matter does
 leave some traces.
 Its energy (we count any mass as energy in accordance with Einstein's E
 = mc
\begin_inset Formula $^{2}$
\end_inset

) is permanently reflected in an increment in the black hole's mass.
 If the matter is captured while circling the hole, its associated angular
 momentum is added to the black hole's angular momentum.
 Both the mass and angular momentum of a black hole are measurable from
 their effects on spacetime around the hole.
 In this way, the laws of conservation of energy and angular momentum are
 upheld by black holes.
 Another fundamental law, the second law of thermodynamics, appears to be
 violated.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second law of thermodynamics summarizes the familiar observation that
 most processes in nature are irreversible: a teacup falls from the table
 and shatters, but no one has ever seen shards jump up of their own accord
 and assemble into a teacup.
 The second law of thermodynamics forbids such inverse processes.
 It states that the entropy of an isolated physical system can never decrease;
 at best, entropy remains constant, and usually it increases.
 This law is central to physical chemistry and engineering; it is arguably
 the physical law with the greatest impact outside physics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As first emphasized by Wheeler, when matter disappears into a black hole,
 its entropy is gone for good, and the second law seems to be transcended,
 made irrelevant.
 A clue to resolving this puzzle came in 1970, when Demetrious Christodoulou,
 then a graduate student of Wheeler's at Princeton, and Stephen Hawking
 of the University of Cambridge independently proved that in various processes,
 such as black hole mergers, the total area of the event horizons never
 decreases.
 The analogy with the tendency of entropy to increase led me to propose
 in 1972 that a black hole has entropy proportional to the area of its horizon
 [see illustration on this page].
 I conjectured that when matter falls into a black hole, the increase in
 black hole entropy always compensates or overcompensates for the lost entropy
 of the matter.
 More generally, the sum of black hole entropies and the ordinary entropy
 outside the black holes cannot decrease.
 This is the generalized second law--GSL for short.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The GSL has passed a large number of stringent, if purely theoretical, tests.
 When a star collapses to form a black hole, the black hole entropy greatly
 exceeds the star's entropy.
 In 1974 Hawking demonstrated that a black hole spontaneously emits thermal
 radiation, now known as Hawking radiation, by a quantum process.
 The Christodoulou-Hawking theorem fails in the face of this phenomenon
 (the mass of the black hole, and therefore its horizon area, decreases),
 but the GSL copes with it: the entropy of the emergent radiation more than
 compensates for the decrement in black hole entropy, so the GSL is preserved.
 In 1986 Rafael D.
 Sorkin of Syracuse University exploited the horizon's role in barring informati
on inside the black hole from influencing affairs outside to show that the
 GSL (or something very similar to it) must be valid for any conceivable
 process that black holes undergo.
 His deep argument makes it clear that the entropy entering the GSL is that
 calculated down to level X, whatever that level may be.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Hawking's radiation process allowed him to determine the proportionality
 constant between black hole entropy and horizon area: black hole entropy
 is precisely one quarter of the event horizon's area measured in Planck
 areas.
 (The Planck length, about 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{-33}$
\end_inset

 centimeter, is the fundamental length scale related to gravity and quantum
 mechanics.
 The Planck area is its square.) Even in thermodynamic terms, this is a vast
 quantity of entropy.
 The entropy of a black hole one centimeter in diameter would be about 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{66}$
\end_inset

 bits, roughly equal to the thermodynamic entropy of a cube of water 10
 billion kilometers on a side.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
The World as a Hologram
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
THE GSL ALLOWS US to set bounds on the information capacity of any isolated
 physical system, limits that refer to the information at all levels of
 structure down to level X.
 In 1980 I began studying the first such bound, called the universal entropy
 bound, which limits how much entropy can be carried by a specified mass
 of a specified size [see box at left].
 A related idea, the holographic bound, was foreshadowed in 1993 by Nobel
 laureate Gerard t Hooft of the University of Utrecht in the Netherlands
 and developed in 1995 by Leonard Susskind of Stanford University.
 It limits how much entropy can be contained in matter and energy occupying
 a specified volume of space.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In his work on the holographic bound, Susskind considered any approximately
 spherical isolated mass that is not itself a black hole and that fits inside
 a closed surface of area A.
 If the mass can collapse to a black hole, that hole will end up with a
 horizon area smaller than A.
 The black hole entropy is therefore smaller than A/4.
 According to the GSL, the entropy of the system cannot decrease, so the
 mass's original entropy cannot have been bigger than A/4.
 It follows that the entropy of an isolated physical system with boundary
 area A is necessarily less than A/4.
 What if the mass does not spontaneously collapse? In 2000 I showed that
 a tiny black hole can be used to convert the system to a black hole not
 much different from the one in Susskind's argument.
 The bound is therefore independent of the constitution of the system or
 of the nature of level X.
 It just depends on the GSL.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We can now answer some of those elusive questions about the ultimate limits
 of information storage.
 A device measuring a centimeter across could in principle hold up to 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{66}$
\end_inset

 bits--a mind-boggling amount.
 The visible universe contains at least 
\begin_inset Formula $10^{100}$
\end_inset

 bits of entropy, which could in principle be packed inside a sphere a tenth
 of a light-year across.
 Estimating the entropy of the universe is a difficult problem, however,
 and much larger numbers, requiring a sphere almost as big as the universe
 itself, are entirely plausible.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But it is another aspect of the holographic bound that is truly astonishing.
 Namely, that the maximum possible entropy depends on the boundary area
 instead of the volume.
 Imagine that we are piling up computer memory chips in a big heap.
 The number of transistors--the total data storage capacity--increases with
 the volume of the heap.
 So, too, does the total thermodynamic entropy of all the chips.
 Remarkably, though, the theoretical ultimate information capacity of the
 space occupied by the heap increases only with the surface area.
 Because volume increases more rapidly than surface area, at some point
 the entropy of all the chips would exceed the holographic bound.
 It would seem that either the GSL or our commonsense ideas of entropy and
 information capacity must fail.
 In fact, what fails is the pile itself: it would collapse under its own
 gravity and form a black hole before that impasse was reached.
 Thereafter each additional memory chip would increase the mass and surface
 area of the black hole in a way that would continue to preserve the GSL.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This surprising result--that information capacity depends on surface area--has
 a natural explanation if the holographic principle (proposed by t Hooft
 and elaborated by Susskind) is true.
 In the everyday world, a hologram is a special kind of photograph that
 generates a full three-dimensional image when it is illuminated in the
 right manner.
 All the information describing the 3-D scene is encoded into the pattern
 of light and dark areas on the two-dimensional piece of film, ready to
 be regenerated.
 The holographic principle contends that an analogue of this visual magic
 applies to the full physical description of any system occupying a 3-D
 region: it proposes that another physical theory defined only on the 2-D
 boundary of the region completely describes the 3-D physics.
 If a 3-D system can be fully described by a physical theory operating solely
 on its 2-D boundary, one would expect the information content of the system
 not to exceed that of the description on the boundary.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
A Universe Painted on Its Boundary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
CAN WE APPLY the holographic principle to the universe at large? The real
 universe is a 4-D system: it has volume and extends in time.
 If the physics of our universe is holographic, there would be an alternative
 set of physical laws, operating on a 3-D boundary of spacetime somewhere,
 that would be equivalent to our known 4-D physics.
 We do not yet know of any such 3-D theory that works in that way.
 Indeed, what surface should we use as the boundary of the universe? One
 step toward realizing these ideas is to study models that are simpler than
 our real universe.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A class of concrete examples of the holographic principle at work involves
 so-called anti de Sitter spacetimes.
 The original de Sitter spacetime is a model universe first obtained by
 Dutch astronomer Willem de Sitter in 1917 as a solution of Einstein's equations
, including the repulsive force known as the cosmological constant.
 De Sitter spacetime is empty, expands at an accelerating rate and is very
 highly symmetrical.
 In 1997 astronomers studying distant supernova explosions concluded that
 our universe now expands in an accelerated fashion and will probably become
 increasingly like a de Sitter spacetime in the future.
 Now, if the repulsive cosmological constant is replaced by an attractive
 one, de Sitter's solution turns into anti-de Sitter spacetime, which has
 equally as much symmetry.
 More important for the holographic concept, it possesses a boundary (mit
 der Zeitkoordinate), which is located at infinity and is a lot like our
 everyday spacetime.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using anti-de Sitter spacetime, theorists have devised a concrete example
 of the holographic principle at work: a universe described by superstring
 theory functioning in an anti-de Sitter spacetime is completely equivalent
 to a quantum field theory operating on the boundary of that spacetime [see
 box below].
 Thus, the full majesty of superstring theory in an anti-de Sitter universe
 is painted on the boundary of the universe.
 Juan Maldacena, then at Harvard University, first conjectured such a relation
 in 1997 for the 5-D anti-de Sitter case, and it was later confirmed for
 many situations by Edward Witten of the Institute for Advanced Study in
 Princeton, N.J., and Steven S.
 Gubser, Igor R.
 Klebanov and Alexander M.
 Polyakov of Princeton University.
 Examples of this holographic correspondence are now known for spacetimes
 with a variety of dimensions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This result means that two ostensibly very different theories--not even
 acting in spaces of the same dimension--are equivalent.
 Creatures living in one of these universes would be incapable of determining
 if they inhabited a 5-D universe described by string theory or a 4-D one
 described by a quantum field theory of point particles.
 (Of course, the structures of their brains might give them an overwhelming
 commonsense prejudice in favor of one description or another, in just the
 way that our brains construct an innate perception that our universe has
 three spatial dimensions; see the illustration on the opposite page.)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The holographic equivalence can allow a difficult calculation in the 4-D
 boundary spacetime, such as the behavior of quarks and gluons, to be traded
 for another, easier calculation in the highly symmetric, 5-D anti-de Sitter
 spacetime.
 The correspondence works the other way, too.
 Witten has shown that a black hole in anti-de Sitter spacetime corresponds
 to hot radiation in the alternative physics operating on the bounding spacetime.
 The entropy of the hole--a deeply mysterious concept--equals the radiation's
 entropy, which is quite mundane (banal).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
The Expanding Universe
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
HIGHLY SYMMETRIC and empty, the 5-D antide Sitter universe is hardly like
 our universe existing in 4-D, filled with matter and radiation and riddled
 with violent events.
 Even if we approximate our real universe with one that has matter and radiation
 spread uniformly throughout, we get not an antide Sitter universe but rather
 a Friedmann-Robertson-Walker universe.
 Most cosmologists today concur (übereinstimmen) that our universe resembles
 (ähnelt) an FRW universe, one that is infinite, has no boundary and will
 go on expanding ad infinitum.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Does such a universe conform to the holographic principle or the holographic
 bound? Susskind's argument based on collapse to a black hole is of no help
 here.
 Indeed, the holographic bound deduced from black holes must break down
 in a uniform expanding universe.
 The entropy of a region uniformly filled with matter and radiation is truly
 proportional to its volume.
 A sufficiently large region will therefore violate the holographic bound.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In 1999 Raphael Bousso, then at Stanford, proposed a modified holographic
 bound, which has since been found to work even in situations where the
 bounds we discussed earlier cannot be applied.
 Bousso's formulation starts with any suitable 2-D surface; it may be closed
 like a sphere or open like a sheet of paper.
 One then imagines a brief burst of light issuing simultaneously and perpendicul
arly from all over one side of the surface.
 The only demand is that the imaginary light rays are converging to start
 with.
 Light emitted from the inner surface of a spherical shell, for instance,
 satisfies that requirement.
 One then considers the entropy of the matter and radiation that these imaginary
 rays traverse, up to the points where they start crossing.
 Bousso conjectured that this entropy cannot exceed the entropy represented
 by the initial surface--one quarter of its area, measured in Planck areas.
 This is a different way of tallying up the entropy than that used in the
 original holographic bound.
 Bousso's bound refers not to the entropy of a region at one time but rather
 to the sum of entropies of locales at a variety of times: those that are
 illuminated by the light burst from the surface.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Bousso's bound subsumes other entropy bounds while avoiding their limitations.
 Both the universal entropy bound and the t Hooft-Susskind form of the holograph
ic bound can be deduced from Bousso's for any isolated system that is not
 evolving rapidly and whose gravitational field is not strong.
 When these conditions are overstepped--as for a collapsing sphere of matter
 already inside a black hole--these bounds eventually fail, whereas Bousso's
 bound continues to hold.
 Bousso has also shown that his strategy can be used to locate the 2-D surfaces
 on which holograms of the world can be set up.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
